## Python Course for Code Louisville Summer 2022

### I originally was going to make my project a server dashboard page to connect to my local servers as well as my VPS servers.
### Due to the fact that I got a new job as a Systems Administrator and Application Developer, it took a lot of time away from my work this cohort.
### To make my life easier, I went ahead and switched gears and decided to make a web scraping project because I am already familiar with web scraping with Python before taking this class. I have made a few scrapers already notifying me of a product going below a certain price point on Amazon and sending me an email with the link to the product and the new price.
### To take it a step further, I wanted to scrape data from a website that would have a real world application for me. I have done some projects on the side for clients and one of my clients is a real estate agent and he has requested updated information on listings so that he can use them for his business.
### I wanted to make this project as a start for helping my client and get the experience I need to build him a product that he wants. During my search to scrape the data in the best way possible, I ended up using a Canadian real estate website since they seemed to have a built in API that I could gain access to through Chrome Dev Tools and I could use that to my advantage.

### For this project, I created a Google Colab Notebook which is included in the repo. I also started a self-hosted Jupyter Notebook on one of my VPS servers just to have some variety and to learn about using Jupyter notebooks. One thing I struggled with is reading the database from a remote connection. Hosting the postgres database on my Google Colab Notebook did not seem to work like I wanted. There isn't an easy way for me to make a query on the database using the notebook I was working on to make life simple. I tried to use a Jupyter Notebook on my VPS server as I have complete control over that server. While I can connect to the DB remotely after configuring PostgreSQL correctly to accept incoming connections, I could not get the SSL settings to work in a timely fashion and since class is already over and I am allowed to turn my project in late, this will just be a feature that I cannot completely demonstrate properly.